`tcptracer`: Add guide and integration test (#538)
kinvolk/inspektor-gadget: docs/guides/tcptracer.md

---
title: 'The "tcptracer" gadget'
weight: 10
---

The `tcptracer` gadget is used to monitor tcp connections.

## How to use it?

> First, we need to create one pod with limited amount of memory:

Author: Indeed, from `oomkill` guide :sweat_smile:

```bash
$ $ kubectl run busybox --image busybox:latest sleep inf
pod/busybox created
```

You can now use the gadget, but output will be empty:

```bash
$ kubectl gadget tcptracer
NODE             NAMESPACE        POD              CONTAINER        KPID   KCOMM            PAGES  TPID             TCOMM
```

Indeed, it is waiting for TCP connection to be established in the `default` namespace (you can use `-A` to monitor all namespaces and then be sure to not miss any event).
So, in *an other terminal*, `exec` a container and run this `wget`:

```bash
$ kubectl exec -ti busybox -- wget https://www.microsoft.com
Connecting to www.microsoft.com (95.101.225.221:443)
wget: note: TLS certificate validation not implemented
wget: server returned error: HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden

> command terminated with exit code 1

Reviewer: I would prefer to use a command that does not fail.

```

Go back to *the first terminal* and see:

```bash
NODE             NAMESPACE        POD              CONTAINER        T PID    COMM             IP  SADDR            DADDR            SPORT   DPORT

> minikube         <>               <>               <>               C 19981  wget             4   172.17.0.3       95.101.225.221   34434   443

Reviewer 2: What about also printing the line when the connection is closed?

Author: I do not understand your comment.
I am only getting one line when I run `wget`.

Reviewer: I think you get one line because the connection does not success. Now that you are using `kinvolk.io` you should get another entry for the `close()`.

Author: I tested with `kinvolk.io` but I am still getting only one line.
Maybe it is because I use `podinformer`.

Reviewer 2: It's not related with podinformer at all. It's something with the `wget` implementation of busybox. I tried other images and two lines are printed.

Author: Thank you for your test, let's stick with this output.

Reviewer: IMO, the container image should be changed to be able to show the `close()` entry in the output which will contain the Kubernetes metadata. I think it would improve the guide because with the current example you are hitting https://github.com/kinvolk/inspektor-gadget/issues/550 and no Kubernetes metadata is shown at all. WDYT?

Author: I do not really see the point.
The important thing is that user gets the same output when they test than that of the guide.
So, as long as they test with `busybox` they will only get one line for `connect()`.

Regarding #550, we can either wait for it to be solved and I will update this guide or we can update the guide in #550.

```

The printed lined correspond to TCP connection established with the socket.
Here is the full legend of all the fields:

* `T`: How the TCP connection was established, it can be one of the following values:
	* `C`: The TCP connection was established after a `connect()` system call.
	* `A`: The TCP connection was established after an `accept()` system call.
	* `X`: The TCP connection was closed following the `close()` system call.

> 	* `U`: The TCP connection was either established or closed following and unknown reasons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	* `U`: The TCP connection was either established or closed following an unknown reason.
```

> * `PID`: The PID which calls `connect`.

Reviewer: This field is also valid for `accept()` and `close()`.

* `COMM`: The command corresponding to the PID.
* `IP`: The IP version (either 4 or 6).
* `SADDR`: The sender IP address.
* `DADDR`: The destination IP address.
* `SPORT`: The sender port.
* `DPORT`: The destination port.

> So, the above line should be read like this: "Command `wget`, which has PID 19981, established a TCP connection, using the `connect()` system call, from the IP version 4 IP 172.17.0.3 and port 34434 towards IP 95.101.255.221 and port 433"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, the above line should be read like this: "Command `wget`, which has PID 19981, established a TCP connection through IP version 4, using the `connect()` system call, from the IP 172.17.0.3 and port 34434 towards IP 95.101.255.221 and port 433".
```

```

The printed lined correspond to TCP connection established with the socket.
Here is the full legend of all the fields:

* `T`: How the TCP connection was established, it can be one of the following values:
	* `C`: The TCP connection was established after a `connect()` system call.
	* `A`: The TCP connection was established after an `accept()` system call.
	* `X`: The TCP connection was closed following the `close()` system call.
	* `U`: The TCP connection was either established or closed following an unknown reason.
* `PID`: The PID which established the TCP connection.
* `COMM`: The command corresponding to the PID.
* `IP`: The IP version (either 4 or 6).
* `SADDR`: The source IP address.
* `DADDR`: The destination IP address.
* `SPORT`: The source port.
* `DPORT`: The destination port.

So, the above line should be read like this: "Command `wget`, which has PID 19981, established a TCP connection through IP version 4, using the `connect()` system call, from address 172.17.0.3 and port 34434 towards address 95.101.255.221 and port 433"

Note that, IP 95.101.255.221 corresponds to `microsoft.com` while port 443 is the port generally used for HTTPS.

> 

Reviewer: Could you please update it?
